We have now discussed the main goal of functional safety,
identifying hazards and lowering risks to acceptable level.
So one of the first steps in functional safety analysis is to
identify hazards that could cause injury or harm a person's health.
Vehicles have a lot of safety features that we take for granted today.
But many safety features such as padded dashboards, headrests,
and windshield glass came about because vehicles were actually causing injuries.
In functional safety, we want to identify hazards before they ever cause injury.
We do not want to wait for an injury to happen and then identify the hazards after.
But how do you identify these potential hazards? It takes brainstorming.
As a functional safety engineer,
you will take a cross-section of personnel from
your company to help out with the brainstorming process.
You have to imagine a lot of
different scenarios and situations that could lead to accidents.
To help you identify hazards,
we are going to discuss three general causes of accidents: Errors caused by humans.
errors from technology and errors caused by human technology interaction.
This is just an introduction to hazard analysis.
In the following lesson,
we will give you a more formal framework for identifying hazards.